# CSS

## Structure

We loosely follow the conventions of
[ITCSS](http://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/manage-large-css-projects-itcss-101517528)
by basing our folder structure based on the following layers:

### 1. Settings

Global variables for the project eg. colour palettes and config.

This layer:
- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.
- does not produce any CSS.

### 2. Tools

Mixins and functions that help us to implement shared logic or calculations that
need to be made available globally.

This layer:
- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.
- does not produce any CSS.

### 3. Helpers

Mixins that provide commonly required functionality such as visually hiding an
element or clearing floats.

This layer:
- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.

### 4. Core
Houses basic content styles for typography, links etc.

This layer:
- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.

### 5. Objects

Objects can range from something as simple as a wrapper element, to layout systems.

They may be used in any number of unrelated contexts to the one you can
currently see it in. This means that making modifications to these types of
class could potentially have knock-on effects in a lot of other unrelated
places.

This layer:
- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.

### 6. Components

Recognisable pieces of UI that map directly to the components in the Design
System.

Modifying these styles should be safe and have no side effects.

Any classes generated by this layer will use the prefix `govuk-`.

### 7. Overrides

Classes that override all other layers - for example to override the spacing or
font size / line height on an element.

- forms part of the @govuk-frontend/global package.
- uses the prefix `govuk-!-` for its classes, eg. `govuk-!-mt-r8`; `r` indicates the class is responsive and `8` is the scale point; these are set in settings/spacing


# Class naming convention

## Namespacing

All classnames start with a `.govuk-` namespace to encapsulate component styling
and prevent unnecessary style leaks. It also helps to identify ‘approved’
components, that have been rewritten to meet the new coding conventions.

Most layers also use a second prefix to denote their layer and to help the user
know what the implications of changing each one will be.

### Further reading:

* [Harry Roberts - More Transparent UI Code with Namespaces](https://csswizardry.com/2015/03/more-transparent-ui-code-with-namespaces/)

# BEM

BEM – meaning block, element, modifier – is a front-end naming methodology.

BEM tells developers how classes relate to each other.

The naming convention follows this pattern:

    .block {}
    .block__element {}
    .block--modifier {}

    .govuk-card               // Block - the root of a component
    .govuk-card__body         // Element - a part of the block
    .govuk-card--active       // Modifier - a variant of the block

The reason for double hyphens and underscores after the block name, is so that the block can be hyphen delimited, for example:

    .govuk-phase-banner

**Why?**

Styles can be applied without location dependence. This prevents module styles interfering with global or sidewide styles.

### Further reading:

* [BEM Resources](https://github.com/sturobson/BEM-resources)
* [Harry Roberts - BEMIT: Taking the BEM Naming Convention a Step Further](https://csswizardry.com/2015/08/bemit-taking-the-bem-naming-convention-a-step-further/)

## Nesting

Aim to keep nesting to a minimum.

Break elements and modifiers outside of blocks rather than nesting using a parent selector `&`.

Bad:
```
.govuk-breadcrumb {
  ...
  &__item {
    ...
  }
}
```

Good:
```
.govuk-breadcrumb {
  ...
}

.govuk-breadcrumb__item {
  ...
}
```

BEM stands for `Block__Element--Modifier`, not `Block__Element__Element--Modifier`.

Avoid multiple element level naming.

**Why?**

This makes the code base more searchable and straightforward, making it easier to maintain.
It also  discourages the (bad) habit of excessive nesting.

## Single Responsibility Principle

Each class has a single purpose, so you can be sure when making a change to a class - it will only affect the element that class is applied to.

Also when deprecating classes, all of the CSS for this class can be removed without affecting another component that had reused this css.

**Why?**

To ensure that styles can safely be added or removed without fear of breaking other components.

## Component modifiers

Keep all of the variants of a component in the same place.

`.govuk-error-summary` modifies the `.govuk-list` component.

Component modifiers use an extra class, scoped to the component:

`.govuk-error-summary__list`

This class is part of the component, rather than a parent of a component.

**Why?**
This makes it easier to keep track of different contexts.

# Linting

To ensure code quality and consistency in our Sass files we check that certain style rules are followed using a project [YAML file](../config/.sass-lint.yml)
As we're using node-sass parser to parse our scss files, the package of choice is [sass-lint](https://github.com/sasstools/sass-lint).

## Running the lint task
You can run the linter in [gulp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-sass-lint) or check linting directly in [Sublime Text](https://github.com/skovhus/SublimeLinter-contrib-sass-lint), [Atom](https://atom.io/packages/linter-sass-lint) or other [IDE's](https://github.com/sasstools/sass-lint#ide-integration)

## Linting rules

We use the following rules when linting files:

### Use soft tabs (2 spaces)

### Write each property on its own line

Bad:
```
.selector {border: 0; padding: 0;}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  border: 0;
  padding: 0;
}
```

### Use variables for colours not HEX values in selectors rules, unless in variables.

Bad:
```
.selector {
  color: #005ea5;
}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  color: $govuk-blue;
}
```

### Colours defined as variables should be in lowercase and in full length

Bad:
```
$white: #FFF;
```

Good:
```
$white: #ffffff;
```

### Use `border: 0` not `none` to denote no border

Bad:
```
.selector {
  border: none;
}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  border: 0;
}
```

### Avoid using ID selectors

Bad:
```
#content {
  ...
}
```

Good:
```
.govuk-wrapper {
  ...
}
```

### Separate rule, function, and mixin declarations with empty lines

Bad:
```
p {
  margin: 0;
  em {
    ...
  }
}
a {
  ...
}
```

Good:
```
p {
  margin: 0;

  em {
    ...
  }
}

a {
  ...
}
```

### Use no more than 3 levels of nesting

Bad:
```
.govuk-breadcrumb {
  ...
  &__item {
    ...
  }
}
```

Good:
```
.govuk-breadcrumb {
  ...
}

.govuk-breadcrumb__item {
  ...
}
```

### Don't use extends, use mixins

Bad:
```
@extend %contain-floats;
```

Good:
```
@include clearfix;
```

### Allow max 3-rule property shorthand if possible

Bad:
```
margin: 1px 2px 3px 2px;
```

Good:
```
margin: 1px 2px 3px;
```
### Files should always have a final newline

### Commas in lists should be followed by a space

### The basenames of `@import`ed SCSS partials should not begin with an underscore and should not include the filename extension

Bad:
```
@import '_foo.scss';
@import '_bar/foo.scss';
```

Good:
```
@import 'foo';
@import 'bar/foo';
```

### Properties should be formatted with a single space separating the colon from the property's value

Bad:
```
.foo {
  content:'bar';
}
```

Good:
```
.foo {
  content: 'bar';
}
```

### Operators should be formatted with a single space on both sides of an infix operator. These include `+, -, *, /, %, ==, !=, >, >=, <,` and `<=`

Bad:
```
.selector {
  margin: 5px+15px;
}

$foo: 1;
$bar: 3;

.selector {
  margin: $foo+$bar+'px';
}

$foo: 1+1;
$bar: 2-1;

@if $foo==$bar {
  $baz: 1;
}

@if ($foo!=$bar) {
  $baz: 1;
}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  margin: 5px + 15px;
}

$foo: 1;
$bar: 3;

.selector {
  margin: $foo + $bar + 'px';
}

$foo: 1 + 1;
$bar: 2 - 1;

@if $foo == $bar {
  $baz: 1;
}

@if ($foo != $bar) {
  $baz: 1;
}
```

### Avoid whitespace between parentheses and the arguments

Bad:

```
@function foo( $bar, $baz ) {
  @return $bar + $baz;
}
```

Good:

```
@function foo($bar, $baz) {
  @return $bar + $baz;
}
```

### Functions, mixins, variables, and placeholders should be declared with all lowercase letters and hyphens instead of underscores

Bad:
```
@mixin FONT_STACK() {
  font-family: $govuk-font-stack;
}
```

Good:
```
@mixin font-stack() {
  font-family: $govuk-font-stack;
}
```

### Omit length units on zero values

Bad:
```
.selector {
  margin: 0px;
}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  margin: 0;
}
```

### Property values and variable declarations should always end with a semicolon

Bad:
```
.selector {
  margin: 0
}

$my-example-var: value
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  margin: 0;
}

$my-example-var: value;
```

### Don't write trailing zeros for numeric values with a decimal point

Bad:
```
.selector {
  font-size: 0.50em;
}
```

Good:
```
.selector {
  font-size: 0.5em;
}
```

### Remove trailing whitespace

More write up on [supported rules](https://github.com/sasstools/sass-lint/tree/master/docs/rules).
