docs/development-and-publish-tasks.md, before:

# NPM and Gulp tasks

This application used a number of a number of NPM scripts that run the application and trigger gulp tasks that build files, update packages, copy assets and watch for changes.

## Express app only

To simply run the Express app without gulp tasks being triggered, simply run `node app.js`.

## NPM script aliases

There are a few npm scripts in `package.json` that trigger a number of gulp tasks

**`npm run start` will trigger `gulp dev` that:**
- cleans the `public` folder
- compiles component nunjucks files to `public`
- generates `README.md` files from nunjucks files
- copies icons to `public`
- compile sass files, add vendor prefixes and copy to `public`
- starts up the Express server and app
- starts up `gulp watch` task to watch for changes

**`npm run test` will do the following:**
- compile components to HTML
- run JS tests
- run CSS lint checker
- run accessibility tests on HTML files

**`npm run heroku` runs on Heroku build/PR and it:**
- compiles components' HTML
- compiles CSS & JS
- starts up Express

**`npm run build:packages` will do the following:**
- compile component nunjucks to HTML
- copy template, macro and component.njk files for each component
- copy Sass files, add vendor prefixes and replace path to be node_modules consumption compliant
- split icons out from globals/icons into a separate package (packages/icons)
- create an "all" package for Sass
- generate README markdown files

**`npm run build:dist` will do the following:**
- copy JS
- copy icons
- copy SASS and add vendor prefixes
- compile component nujucks files to HTML
- generate README markdown files
- take version from 'all/package.json' and append it to compiled & minified JS and CSS files


## Gulp tasks

**`gulp default` or just `gulp`**

This task will:
- list out all available tasks

**`gulp test`**

This task will:
- run accessibility test (tenon and axe)

**`gulp test:app`**

This task will:
- test the node server

**`gulp test:tasks`**

This task will:
- test the gulp tasks

**`gulp watch`**

This task will:
- watch for changes in .js, .scss and .njk files and run below tasks.

**`gulp styles`**

This task will:
 - run sass lint task (`gulp scss:lint`)
 - sass compilation (`gulp scss:compile`) to a destination folder that can be specified via a --destination flag

**`gulp scripts`**

 This task will:
 - run js lint task (`gulp js:lint`)
 - concatenate and uglify javascript (`gulp js:compile`) to a destination folder that can be specified via a --destination flag

**`gulp generate:readme`**

  This task will:
  - compile all `src/components/componentName/index.njk` files to README markdown files
  These files inherit view templates from `src/views`

**`gulp compile:components`**

  This task will:
  - compile all `src/components/componentName/componentName.njk` files to HTML files

**`gulp lint`**

  Is an umbrella task that will run:
  - `gulp js:lint` and `gulp scss:lint`


All Gulp tasks are defined in `gulpfile.js` and .`/tasks/gulp/` folder.

Commit message:

Convert mocha tests to jest
Since the task tests are meant to be run only as part of the build steps,
this required some reconfiguring of the build scripts.

This will allow us to run jest conditionally after builds as longside tests that run
in master in CI.

docs/development-and-publish-tasks.md, after:

# NPM and Gulp tasks

This application used a number of a number of NPM scripts that run the application and trigger gulp tasks that build files, update packages, copy assets and watch for changes.

## Express app only

To simply run the Express app without gulp tasks being triggered, simply run `node app.js`.

## NPM script aliases

There are a few npm scripts in `package.json` that trigger a number of gulp tasks

**`npm run start` will trigger `gulp dev` that:**
- cleans the `public` folder
- compiles component nunjucks files to `public`
- generates `README.md` files from nunjucks files
- copies icons to `public`
- compile sass files, add vendor prefixes and copy to `public`
- starts up the Express server and app
- starts up `gulp watch` task to watch for changes

**`npm run test` will do the following:**
- compile components to HTML
- run JS tests
- run CSS lint checker
- run accessibility tests on HTML files
- run tests on the review application

**`npm run heroku` runs on Heroku build/PR and it:**
- compiles components' HTML
- compiles CSS & JS
- starts up Express

**`npm run build:packages` will do the following:**
- compile component nunjucks to HTML
- copy template, macro and component.njk files for each component
- copy Sass files, add vendor prefixes and replace path to be node_modules consumption compliant
- split icons out from globals/icons into a separate package (packages/icons)
- create an "all" package for Sass
- generate README markdown files
- runs `npm run test:build:packages` (which will test the output is correct)

**`npm run build:dist` will do the following:**
- copy JS
- copy icons
- copy SASS and add vendor prefixes
- compile component nujucks files to HTML
- generate README markdown files
- take version from 'all/package.json' and append it to compiled & minified JS and CSS files
- runs `npm run test:dist:packages` (which will test the output is correct)

## Gulp tasks

**`gulp default` or just `gulp`**

This task will:
- list out all available tasks

**`gulp test`**

This task will:
- run accessibility test (tenon and axe)

**`gulp watch`**

This task will:
- watch for changes in .js, .scss and .njk files and run below tasks.

**`gulp styles`**

This task will:
 - run sass lint task (`gulp scss:lint`)
 - sass compilation (`gulp scss:compile`) to a destination folder that can be specified via a --destination flag

**`gulp scripts`**

 This task will:
 - run js lint task (`gulp js:lint`)
 - concatenate and uglify javascript (`gulp js:compile`) to a destination folder that can be specified via a --destination flag

**`gulp generate:readme`**

  This task will:
  - compile all `src/components/componentName/index.njk` files to README markdown files
  These files inherit view templates from `src/views`

**`gulp compile:components`**

  This task will:
  - compile all `src/components/componentName/componentName.njk` files to HTML files

**`gulp lint`**

  Is an umbrella task that will run:
  - `gulp js:lint` and `gulp scss:lint`


All Gulp tasks are defined in `gulpfile.js` and .`/tasks/gulp/` folder.
